[pull] primary from flybywiresim:primary (#422)
Valastiri/fbw-userguide: docs/fbw-a32nx/feature-guides/hoppie.md

# Hoppie ACARS

> !!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! warning "Not available in the Stable Version"

!!! warning "Requires use and credentials with Hoppie service"
```

Maybe include this at the top feel free to adjust the admon as you see fit.

!!! warning "Development in progress"
    The Hoppie ACARS system is a complex system and we have decided to develop and release it step-by-step. So please be aware that not all features are available in the early releases and that we will add additional functionality in the future.

    The currently planned future releases are adding these features:

    - Datalink Status
    - Automatic D-ATIS, DCL, OCL
    - Vert, Lat requests, Text
    - Other requests, when can we expect
    - Emergency
    - Automatic preparation of replies for report-requests
    - FPL changes for Lat requests
    - Flight Monitoring for conditional reports

>     This plan might change at any time.

Reviewer: Maybe state first what features "are currently available" and then what is planned after?

Reviewer 2: will do

## Hoppie System

The Hoppie system is developed by Jeroen "Hoppie" Hoppenbrouwers which provides text-based communication between aircraft, virtual airlines and virtual ATC stations. It provides multiple communication protocols to communicate between different stations. The system is used by controllers on VATSIM and IVAO.

[Hoppie Homepage](http://www.hoppie.nl/pub/){target=new}

The A32NX implements the TELEX and CPDLC communication between ATC stations and the aircraft.

!!! note "[CPDLC](https://skybrary.aero/articles/controller-pilot-data-link-communications-cpdlc){target=new} stands for Controller Pilot Data Link Communication."

> It allows a communication from ATC stations with the aircraft without the use of voice, but it is still required that the pilot monitors the voice frequency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows communication between ATC stations and the aircraft without the use of voice, but it is still required that the pilot monitors the voice frequency.
```

!!! note "Instruction to contact ATC station via voice"
    ![Contact next station](../assets/feature-guides/hoppie/dcdu-contact.png "Contact next station"){loading=lazy}

If the next ATC station provides CPDLC we can notify this next station which would log us off the current station when accepted. See [Station Handover / Notification](#station-handover-notification).

### Logoff From Station

You can logoff from the current station if the next station does not provide CPDLC.

![Logoff / Disconnect](../assets/feature-guides/hoppie/dcdu-logoff.png "Logoff / Disconnect"){loading=lazy}

## Troubleshooting

Sometimes the ATC station does not respond to PDC or CPDLC messages. This mostly happens because of ATC controllers not responding, an issue in the Hoppie network or potentially an issue with the A32NX.

This chapter will give you some hints to check what the actual cause of the issue is.

### Find online stations

It is possible to find all currently online stations. This is helpful to check if the responsible ATC station provides CPDLC or PDC.

> A complete list can be found [here](http://www.hoppie.nl/acars/system/online.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete list can be found [here](http://www.hoppie.nl/acars/system/online.html){target=new}.
```
